site/src/pages/docs/server-grpc.mdx, before:

# Running a gRPC service

<Tip>

Visit [armeria-examples](https://github.com/line/armeria-examples) to find a fully working example.

</Tip>

Let's assume we have the following [gRPC][gRPC] service definition:

```protobuf
syntax = "proto3";

package grpc.hello;

option java_package = "com.example.grpc.hello";

service HelloService {
  rpc Hello (HelloRequest) returns (HelloReply) {}
}

message HelloRequest {
  string name = 1;
}

message HelloReply {
  string message = 1;
}
```

The Protobuf compiler will produce some Java code under the `com.example.grpc.hello` package.
The most noteworthy one is `HelloServiceGrpc.java` which defines the base service class we will implement:

```java
public class HelloServiceGrpc {
    ...
    public static abstract class HelloServiceImplBase implements BindableService {
        public void hello(HelloRequest req, StreamObserver<HelloReply> responseObserver) {
            asyncUnimplementedUnaryCall(METHOD_HELLO, responseObserver);
        }
        ...
    }
    ...
}
```

Our implementation would look like the following:

```java
public class MyHelloService extends HelloServiceGrpc.HelloServiceImplBase {
    @Override
    public void hello(HelloRequest req, StreamObserver<HelloReply> responseObserver) {
        HelloReply reply = HelloReply.newBuilder()
                                     .setMessage("Hello, " + req.getName() + '!')
                                     .build();
        responseObserver.onNext(reply);
        responseObserver.onCompleted();
    }
}
```
<Tip>

It is recommended to use the build plugin as explained in
[the gRPC-Java README](https://github.com/grpc/grpc-java/blob/master/README.md#download) rather than
running `protoc` manually.

</Tip>

## `GrpcService`
Once you've finished the implementation of the service, you need to build a <type://GrpcService> using
a <type://GrpcServiceBuilder> and add it to the <type://ServerBuilder>:

```java
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.Server;
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.ServerBuilder;

ServerBuilder sb = Server.builder();
...
sb.service(GrpcService.builder()
                      .addService(new MyHelloService())
                      .build());
...
Server server = sb.build();
server.start();
```

<Tip>

We bound the <type://GrpcService> without specifying any path. It is because <type://GrpcService>
implements <type://HttpServiceWithRoutes>, which dynamically provides <typeplural://Route> by itself.

</Tip>

<Tip>

<type://GrpcService> supports [gRPC][gRPC], [gRPC-Web][gRPC-Web] and [Protobuf-JSON][Protobuf-JSON] by default.
If you don't want your <type://GrpcService> support all those formats, specify the formats you want
using <type://GrpcServiceBuilder#supportedSerializationFormats(Iterable)>.

</Tip>


## Decorating a `GrpcService`

Unlike a usual Armeria service, <type://GrpcService> implements a special interface called
<type://HttpServiceWithRoutes>. Therefore, it is recommended to decorate a <type://GrpcService> by specifying
decorator functions as extra parameters rather than using `Service.decorate()`:

```java
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.logging.LoggingService;

ServerBuilder sb = Server.builder();
...
sb.service(GrpcService.builder()
                      .addService(new MyHelloService())
                      .build(),
           LoggingService.newDecorator());
...
Server server = sb.build();
server.start();
```
See [Decorating `ServiceWithRoutes`](/docs/server-decorator#decorating-servicewithroutes) for more information about <type://HttpServiceWithRoutes>.

## `gRPC-Web`

<type://GrpcService> supports the [gRPC-Web][gRPC-Web] protocol,
a small modification to the [gRPC][gRPC] wire format that can be used from a browser.
Use the [gRPC-Web-Client][gRPC-Web-Client] to access the service from a browser.
[gRPC-Web][gRPC-Web] does not support RPC methods with client-side/bi-directional streaming requests.

If the origin of the Javascript and API server are different, [gRPC-Web-Client][gRPC-Web-Client] first sends `preflight`
requests by the HTTP `OPTIONS` method, in order to determine whether the actual request is safe to send
in terms of CORS. Armeria provides <type://CorsService> to handle this requests, so you need to decorate it when
you build a <type://GrpcService>:

```java
import com.linecorp.armeria.common.grpc.GrpcHeaderNames;
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.cors.CorsService;
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.cors.CorsServiceBuilder;

ServerBuilder sb = Server.builder();
...
final CorsServiceBuilder corsBuilder =
        CorsService.builder("http://foo.com")
                   .allowRequestMethods(HttpMethod.POST) // Allow POST method.
                   // Allow Content-type and X-GRPC-WEB headers.
                   .allowRequestHeaders(HttpHeaderNames.CONTENT_TYPE,
                                        HttpHeaderNames.of("X-GRPC-WEB"))
                   // Expose trailers of the HTTP response to the client.
                   .exposeHeaders(GrpcHeaderNames.GRPC_STATUS,
                                  GrpcHeaderNames.GRPC_MESSAGE,
                                  GrpcHeaderNames.ARMERIA_GRPC_THROWABLEPROTO_BIN);

sb.service(GrpcService.builder()
                      .addService(new MyHelloService())
                      .build(),
           corsBuilder.newDecorator(),
           LoggingService.newDecorator());
...
Server server = sb.build();
server.start();
```
Please refer to [Configuring CORS](/docs/server-cors) for more information.

## Unframed requests

<type://GrpcService> supports serving unary RPC methods (no streaming request or response) without [gRPC][gRPC]
wire format framing. This can be useful for gradually migrating an existing HTTP POST based API to [gRPC][gRPC].
As <type://GrpcService> supports both binary protobuf and [Protobuf-JSON][Protobuf-JSON], either legacy protobuf
or JSON APIs can be used.

```java
ServerBuilder sb = Server.builder();
...
sb.service(GrpcService.builder()
                      .addService(new MyHelloService())
                      .enableUnframedRequests(true)
                      .build());
...
Server server = sb.build();
server.start();
```

This service's unary methods can be accessed from any HTTP client at e.g., URL `/grpc.hello.HelloService/Hello`
with Content-Type `application/protobuf` for binary protobuf POST body or `application/json; charset=utf-8`
for JSON POST body.

## Blocking service implementation

Unlike upstream gRPC-Java, Armeria does not run service logic in a separate thread pool by default. If your
service implementation requires blocking, either run the individual blocking logic in a thread pool, wrap the
entire service implementation in `RequestContext.current().blockingTaskExecutor().submit`, or set
<type://GrpcServiceBuilder#useBlockingTaskExecutor(boolean)> so the above happens automatically for
all service methods and lifecycle callbacks.

```java
import com.linecorp.armeria.common.RequestContext;
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.ServiceRequestContext;

public class MyHelloService extends HelloServiceGrpc.HelloServiceImplBase {
    @Override
    public void hello(HelloRequest req, StreamObserver<HelloReply> responseObserver) {
        ServiceRequestContext.current().blockingTaskExecutor().submit(() -> {
            // Perform a long-running task.

            HelloReply reply = HelloReply.newBuilder()
                                         .setMessage("Hello, " + req.getName() + '!')
                                         .build();
            responseObserver.onNext(reply);
            responseObserver.onCompleted();
        });
    }
}
```

```java
import com.linecorp.armeria.common.RequestContext;
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.ServiceRequestContext;

public class MyHelloService extends HelloServiceGrpc.HelloServiceImplBase {
    @Override
    public void hello(HelloRequest req, StreamObserver<HelloReply> responseObserver) {
        // Perform a long-running task.

        HelloReply reply = HelloReply.newBuilder()
                                     .setMessage("Hello, " + req.getName() + '!')
                                     .build();
        responseObserver.onNext(reply);
        responseObserver.onCompleted();
    }
}

ServerBuilder sb = Server.builder();
sb.service(GrpcService.builder()
                      .addService(new MyHelloService())
                      // All service methods will be run within
                      // the blocking executor.
                      .useBlockingTaskExecutor(true)
                      .build());
```
## Exception propagation
It can be very useful to enable <type://Flags#verboseResponses()> in your server by specifying the
`-Dcom.linecorp.armeria.verboseResponses=true` system property, which will automatically return
information about an exception thrown in the server to gRPC clients. Armeria clients will automatically
convert it back into an exception for structured logging, etc. This response will include information about
the actual source code in the server - make sure it is safe to send such potentially sensitive information
to all your clients before enabling this flag!

See more details at [Client gRPC](/docs/client-grpc).

## Server Reflection
Armeria supports gRPC server reflection - just add an instance of `ProtoReflectionService` to your server.

```java
import io.grpc.protobuf.services.ProtoReflectionService;

ServerBuilder sb = Server.builder();
...
sb.service(GrpcService.builder()
                      .addService(new MyHelloService())
                      .addService(ProtoReflectionService.newInstance())
                      .build());
...
Server server = sb.build();
server.start();
```
For more information, see the official [gRPC Server Reflection tutorial](https://github.com/grpc/grpc-java/blob/master/documentation/server-reflection-tutorial.md).

## See also
- [Client gRPC](/docs/client-grpc)

[gRPC]: https://grpc.io/
[gRPC-Web]: https://github.com/grpc/grpc/blob/master/doc/PROTOCOL-WEB.md
[gRPC-Web-Client]: https://grpc.io/docs/languages/web/quickstart/
[Protobuf-JSON]: https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/proto3#json
[the gRPC-Java README]: https://github.com/grpc/grpc-java/blob/master/README.md#download

Commit message:

more detailed comment, rename grpc-web-client

site/src/pages/docs/server-grpc.mdx, after:

# Running a gRPC service

<Tip>

Visit [armeria-examples](https://github.com/line/armeria-examples) to find a fully working example.

</Tip>

Let's assume we have the following [gRPC][gRPC] service definition:

```protobuf
syntax = "proto3";

package grpc.hello;

option java_package = "com.example.grpc.hello";

service HelloService {
  rpc Hello (HelloRequest) returns (HelloReply) {}
}

message HelloRequest {
  string name = 1;
}

message HelloReply {
  string message = 1;
}
```

The Protobuf compiler will produce some Java code under the `com.example.grpc.hello` package.
The most noteworthy one is `HelloServiceGrpc.java` which defines the base service class we will implement:

```java
public class HelloServiceGrpc {
    ...
    public static abstract class HelloServiceImplBase implements BindableService {
        public void hello(HelloRequest req, StreamObserver<HelloReply> responseObserver) {
            asyncUnimplementedUnaryCall(METHOD_HELLO, responseObserver);
        }
        ...
    }
    ...
}
```

Our implementation would look like the following:

```java
public class MyHelloService extends HelloServiceGrpc.HelloServiceImplBase {
    @Override
    public void hello(HelloRequest req, StreamObserver<HelloReply> responseObserver) {
        HelloReply reply = HelloReply.newBuilder()
                                     .setMessage("Hello, " + req.getName() + '!')
                                     .build();
        responseObserver.onNext(reply);
        responseObserver.onCompleted();
    }
}
```
<Tip>

It is recommended to use the build plugin as explained in
[the gRPC-Java README](https://github.com/grpc/grpc-java/blob/master/README.md#download) rather than
running `protoc` manually.

</Tip>

## `GrpcService`
Once you've finished the implementation of the service, you need to build a <type://GrpcService> using
a <type://GrpcServiceBuilder> and add it to the <type://ServerBuilder>:

```java
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.Server;
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.ServerBuilder;

ServerBuilder sb = Server.builder();
...
sb.service(GrpcService.builder()
                      .addService(new MyHelloService())
                      .build());
...
Server server = sb.build();
server.start();
```

<Tip>

We bound the <type://GrpcService> without specifying any path. It is because <type://GrpcService>
implements <type://HttpServiceWithRoutes>, which dynamically provides <typeplural://Route> by itself.

</Tip>

<Tip>

<type://GrpcService> supports [gRPC][gRPC], [gRPC-Web][gRPC-Web] and [Protobuf-JSON][Protobuf-JSON] by default.
If you don't want your <type://GrpcService> support all those formats, specify the formats you want
using <type://GrpcServiceBuilder#supportedSerializationFormats(Iterable)>.

</Tip>


## Decorating a `GrpcService`

Unlike a usual Armeria service, <type://GrpcService> implements a special interface called
<type://HttpServiceWithRoutes>. Therefore, it is recommended to decorate a <type://GrpcService> by specifying
decorator functions as extra parameters rather than using `Service.decorate()`:

```java
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.logging.LoggingService;

ServerBuilder sb = Server.builder();
...
sb.service(GrpcService.builder()
                      .addService(new MyHelloService())
                      .build(),
           LoggingService.newDecorator());
...
Server server = sb.build();
server.start();
```
See [Decorating `ServiceWithRoutes`](/docs/server-decorator#decorating-servicewithroutes) for more information about <type://HttpServiceWithRoutes>.

## `gRPC-Web`

<type://GrpcService> supports the [gRPC-Web][gRPC-Web] protocol,
a small modification to the [gRPC][gRPC] wire format that can be used from a browser.
Use the [gRPC-Web-Client][the official gRPC-Web client] to access the service from a browser.

<Tip>

[gRPC-Web-Client][the official gRPC-Web client] does not support client-side
(or bi-directional) streaming yet but only server-side streaming.
See [here](https://github.com/grpc/grpc-web/issues/24) for more information.

</Tip>

If the origin of the Javascript and API server are different, [gRPC-Web-Client][the official gRPC-Web client] first sends `preflight`
requests by the HTTP `OPTIONS` method, in order to determine whether the actual request is safe to send
in terms of CORS. Armeria provides <type://CorsService> to handle this requests, so you need to decorate it when
you build a <type://GrpcService>:

```java
import com.linecorp.armeria.common.grpc.GrpcHeaderNames;
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.cors.CorsService;
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.cors.CorsServiceBuilder;

ServerBuilder sb = Server.builder();
...
final CorsServiceBuilder corsBuilder =
        CorsService.builder("http://foo.com")
                   .allowRequestMethods(HttpMethod.POST) // Allow POST method.
                   // Allow Content-type and X-GRPC-WEB headers.
                   .allowRequestHeaders(HttpHeaderNames.CONTENT_TYPE,
                                        HttpHeaderNames.of("X-GRPC-WEB"))
                   // Expose trailers of the HTTP response to the client.
                   .exposeHeaders(GrpcHeaderNames.GRPC_STATUS,
                                  GrpcHeaderNames.GRPC_MESSAGE,
                                  GrpcHeaderNames.ARMERIA_GRPC_THROWABLEPROTO_BIN);

sb.service(GrpcService.builder()
                      .addService(new MyHelloService())
                      .build(),
           corsBuilder.newDecorator(),
           LoggingService.newDecorator());
...
Server server = sb.build();
server.start();
```
Please refer to [Configuring CORS](/docs/server-cors) for more information.

## Unframed requests

<type://GrpcService> supports serving unary RPC methods (no streaming request or response) without [gRPC][gRPC]
wire format framing. This can be useful for gradually migrating an existing HTTP POST based API to [gRPC][gRPC].
As <type://GrpcService> supports both binary protobuf and [Protobuf-JSON][Protobuf-JSON], either legacy protobuf
or JSON APIs can be used.

```java
ServerBuilder sb = Server.builder();
...
sb.service(GrpcService.builder()
                      .addService(new MyHelloService())
                      .enableUnframedRequests(true)
                      .build());
...
Server server = sb.build();
server.start();
```

This service's unary methods can be accessed from any HTTP client at e.g., URL `/grpc.hello.HelloService/Hello`
with Content-Type `application/protobuf` for binary protobuf POST body or `application/json; charset=utf-8`
for JSON POST body.

## Blocking service implementation

Unlike upstream gRPC-Java, Armeria does not run service logic in a separate thread pool by default. If your
service implementation requires blocking, either run the individual blocking logic in a thread pool, wrap the
entire service implementation in `RequestContext.current().blockingTaskExecutor().submit`, or set
<type://GrpcServiceBuilder#useBlockingTaskExecutor(boolean)> so the above happens automatically for
all service methods and lifecycle callbacks.

```java
import com.linecorp.armeria.common.RequestContext;
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.ServiceRequestContext;

public class MyHelloService extends HelloServiceGrpc.HelloServiceImplBase {
    @Override
    public void hello(HelloRequest req, StreamObserver<HelloReply> responseObserver) {
        ServiceRequestContext.current().blockingTaskExecutor().submit(() -> {
            // Perform a long-running task.

            HelloReply reply = HelloReply.newBuilder()
                                         .setMessage("Hello, " + req.getName() + '!')
                                         .build();
            responseObserver.onNext(reply);
            responseObserver.onCompleted();
        });
    }
}
```

```java
import com.linecorp.armeria.common.RequestContext;
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.ServiceRequestContext;

public class MyHelloService extends HelloServiceGrpc.HelloServiceImplBase {
    @Override
    public void hello(HelloRequest req, StreamObserver<HelloReply> responseObserver) {
        // Perform a long-running task.

        HelloReply reply = HelloReply.newBuilder()
                                     .setMessage("Hello, " + req.getName() + '!')
                                     .build();
        responseObserver.onNext(reply);
        responseObserver.onCompleted();
    }
}

ServerBuilder sb = Server.builder();
sb.service(GrpcService.builder()
                      .addService(new MyHelloService())
                      // All service methods will be run within
                      // the blocking executor.
                      .useBlockingTaskExecutor(true)
                      .build());
```
## Exception propagation
It can be very useful to enable <type://Flags#verboseResponses()> in your server by specifying the
`-Dcom.linecorp.armeria.verboseResponses=true` system property, which will automatically return
information about an exception thrown in the server to gRPC clients. Armeria clients will automatically
convert it back into an exception for structured logging, etc. This response will include information about
the actual source code in the server - make sure it is safe to send such potentially sensitive information
to all your clients before enabling this flag!

See more details at [Client gRPC](/docs/client-grpc).

## Server Reflection
Armeria supports gRPC server reflection - just add an instance of `ProtoReflectionService` to your server.

```java
import io.grpc.protobuf.services.ProtoReflectionService;

ServerBuilder sb = Server.builder();
...
sb.service(GrpcService.builder()
                      .addService(new MyHelloService())
                      .addService(ProtoReflectionService.newInstance())
                      .build());
...
Server server = sb.build();
server.start();
```
For more information, see the official [gRPC Server Reflection tutorial](https://github.com/grpc/grpc-java/blob/master/documentation/server-reflection-tutorial.md).

## See also
- [Client gRPC](/docs/client-grpc)

[gRPC]: https://grpc.io/
[gRPC-Web]: https://github.com/grpc/grpc/blob/master/doc/PROTOCOL-WEB.md
[the official gRPC-Web client]: https://github.com/grpc/grpc-web
[Protobuf-JSON]: https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/proto3#json
[the gRPC-Java README]: https://github.com/grpc/grpc-java/blob/master/README.md#download
