site/src/pages/docs/server-servlet.mdx, before:

# Embedding a servlet container

You can make Armeria serve your JEE web application on the same JVM and TCP/IP port by embedding
[Apache Tomcat](https://tomcat.apache.org/) or [Jetty](https://www.eclipse.org/jetty/).
Neither Tomcat nor Jetty will open a server socket or accept an incoming connection.
All HTTP requests and responses go through Armeria. As a result, you get the following bonuses:
- Your webapp gets HTTP/2 support for free even if your servlet container does not support it.
- You can run your RPC services on the same JVM and port as your webapp with no performance loss.

## Embedding Apache Tomcat

Add a <type://TomcatService> to a <type://ServerBuilder>:

```java
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.ServerBuilder;
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.tomcat.TomcatService;

ServerBuilder sb = Server.builder();

sb.serviceUnder("/tomcat/api/rest/v2/",
                TomcatService.forCurrentClassPath("/webapp"));

sb.serviceUnder("/tomcat/api/rest/v1/",
                TomcatService.forFileSystem("/var/lib/webapps/old_api.war"));
```

For more information, please refer to the API documentation of <type://TomcatService> and
<type://TomcatServiceBuilder>.

## Embedding Jetty

Unlike Apache Tomcat, you need more dependencies and bootstrap code due to its modular design:
- org.eclipse.jetty:jetty-webapp
- org.eclipse.jetty:jetty-annotations
- org.eclipse.jetty:apache-jsp
- org.eclipse.jetty:apache-jstl

```java
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.ServerBuilder;
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.jetty.JettyService;
import org.eclipse.jetty.annotations.ServletContainerInitializersStarter;
import org.eclipse.jetty.apache.jsp.JettyJasperInitializer
import org.eclipse.jetty.plus.annotation.ContainerInitializer
import org.eclipse.jetty.util.resource.Resource;
import org.eclipse.jetty.webapp.WebAppContext;

ServerBuilder sb = Server.builder();

sb.serviceUnder("/jetty/api/rest/v2/",
                JettyService.builder()
                            .handler(newWebAppContext("/webapp"))
                            .build());

static WebAppContext newWebAppContext(String resourcePath) throws MalformedURLException {
    final WebAppContext handler = new WebAppContext();
    handler.setContextPath("/");
    handler.setBaseResource(Resource.newClassPathResource(resourcePath));
    handler.setClassLoader(/* Specify your class loader here. */);
    handler.addBean(new ServletContainerInitializersStarter(handler), true);
    handler.setAttribute(
            "org.eclipse.jetty.containerInitializers",
            Collections.singletonList(
                    new ContainerInitializer(new JettyJasperInitializer(), null)));
    return handler;
}
```

For more information, please refer to the API documentation of <type://JettyService> and
<type://JettyServiceBuilder>.

Commit message:

Add `RequiredDependencies` component (#3037)
Motivation:
It's cumbersome to add the same dependencies for Gradle and Maven respectively, in the documentation.
If we add a React component which shows the dependencies for Gradle and Maven by just defining the dependencies,
it would be a lot easier.

Modifications:
- Add `RequriedDependencies` React component.
- Add required dependencies in the documentation
  - I didn't add one for gRPC and Thrift because
    - we have a link to the example which shows the build script.
    - there are a lot of more stuffs to add except the dependencies so I want to users rather find the example and use it.

Result:
- Close #3027

site/src/pages/docs/server-servlet.mdx, after:

# Embedding a servlet container

You can make Armeria serve your JEE web application on the same JVM and TCP/IP port by embedding
[Apache Tomcat](https://tomcat.apache.org/) or [Jetty](https://www.eclipse.org/jetty/).
Neither Tomcat nor Jetty will open a server socket or accept an incoming connection.
All HTTP requests and responses go through Armeria. As a result, you get the following bonuses:
- Your webapp gets HTTP/2 support for free even if your servlet container does not support it.
- You can run your RPC services on the same JVM and port as your webapp with no performance loss.

## Embedding Apache Tomcat

You need the `armeria-tomcat9` dependency:

<RequiredDependencies
  boms={[{ groupId: 'com.linecorp.armeria', artifactId: 'armeria-bom' }]}
  dependencies={[
    { groupId: 'com.linecorp.armeria', artifactId: 'armeria-tomcat9' },
  ]}
/>

Then, add a <type://TomcatService> to a <type://ServerBuilder>:

```java
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.ServerBuilder;
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.tomcat.TomcatService;

ServerBuilder sb = Server.builder();

sb.serviceUnder("/tomcat/api/rest/v2/",
                TomcatService.forCurrentClassPath("/webapp"));

sb.serviceUnder("/tomcat/api/rest/v1/",
                TomcatService.forFileSystem("/var/lib/webapps/old_api.war"));
```

For more information, please refer to the API documentation of <type://TomcatService> and
<type://TomcatServiceBuilder>.

## Embedding Jetty

You need `armeria-jetty9`, additional `jetty` dependencies and bootstrap code due to its modular design:

<RequiredDependencies
  boms={[
    { groupId: 'com.linecorp.armeria', artifactId: 'armeria-bom' },
    { groupId: 'org.eclipse.jetty', artifactId: 'jetty-bom' },
  ]}
  dependencies={[
    { groupId: 'com.linecorp.armeria', artifactId: 'armeria-jetty9' },
    { groupId: 'org.eclipse.jetty', artifactId: 'jetty-webapp' },
    { groupId: 'org.eclipse.jetty', artifactId: 'jetty-annotations' },
    { groupId: 'org.eclipse.jetty', artifactId: 'apache-jsp' },
    { groupId: 'org.eclipse.jetty', artifactId: 'apache-jstl' },
  ]}
/>

```java
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.ServerBuilder;
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.jetty.JettyService;
import org.eclipse.jetty.annotations.ServletContainerInitializersStarter;
import org.eclipse.jetty.apache.jsp.JettyJasperInitializer
import org.eclipse.jetty.plus.annotation.ContainerInitializer
import org.eclipse.jetty.util.resource.Resource;
import org.eclipse.jetty.webapp.WebAppContext;

ServerBuilder sb = Server.builder();

sb.serviceUnder("/jetty/api/rest/v2/",
                JettyService.builder()
                            .handler(newWebAppContext("/webapp"))
                            .build());

static WebAppContext newWebAppContext(String resourcePath) throws MalformedURLException {
    final WebAppContext handler = new WebAppContext();
    handler.setContextPath("/");
    handler.setBaseResource(Resource.newClassPathResource(resourcePath));
    handler.setClassLoader(/* Specify your class loader here. */);
    handler.addBean(new ServletContainerInitializersStarter(handler), true);
    handler.setAttribute(
            "org.eclipse.jetty.containerInitializers",
            Collections.singletonList(
                    new ContainerInitializer(new JettyJasperInitializer(), null)));
    return handler;
}
```

For more information, please refer to the API documentation of <type://JettyService> and
<type://JettyServiceBuilder>.
