site/src/pages/docs/server-service-registration.mdx, before:

# Service registration for discovery

You can use <type://ServerListener> to register the information of Armeria servers when they start so that
a client uses the information to distribute its requests to the servers autonomously, unlike
traditional server-side load balancing where the requests go through a dedicated load balancer such as
[L4 and L7 switches](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multilayer_switch#Layer_4%E2%80%937_switch,_web_switch,_or_content_switch).

Armeria provides 2 <type://ServerListener> implementations for service registration:
- <type://ZooKeeperUpdatingListener> which registers to [ZooKeeper](https://zookeeper.apache.org/)
  as an ephemeral node.
- <type://EurekaUpdatingListener> which registers to [Eureka](https://github.com/Netflix/eureka/).

## ZooKeeper-based service registration with `ZooKeeperUpdatingListener`

Use <type://ZooKeeperUpdatingListener> and <type://ZooKeeperRegistrationSpec> to register your server
to a ZooKeeper cluster:

```java
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.Server;
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.zookeeper.ZooKeeperRegistrationSpec;
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.zookeeper.ZooKeeperUpdatingListener;

String zkConnectionStr = "myZooKeeperHost:2181";
String znodePath = "/myProductionEndpoints";
String serviceName = "catalog";
ZooKeeperRegistrationSpec registrationSpec =
        ZooKeeperRegistrationSpec.curator(serviceName);
ZooKeeperUpdatingListener listener =
        ZooKeeperUpdatingListener.builder(zkConnectionStr, znodePath, registrationSpec)
                                 .sessionTimeoutMillis(10000)
                                 .build();
Server server = ...
server.addListener(listener);
server.start();
```

The <type://ZooKeeperRegistrationSpec> is used to convert the information of your server to a binary
representation. The <type://ZooKeeperUpdatingListener> registers the binary representation to the specified
znode as a member of the cluster when your server starts up. Each server will represent itself as
[an EPHEMERAL node](https://zookeeper.apache.org/doc/r3.4.10/zookeeperOver.html#Nodes+and+ephemeral+nodes),
which means when a server stops or a network partition between your server and ZooKeeper cluster occurs,
the node of the server that became unreachable will be deleted automatically by ZooKeeper.

<type://ZooKeeperRegistrationSpec#curator(String)> uses the format of
[Curator Service Discovery](https://curator.apache.org/curator-x-discovery/index.html) which is compatible
with [Spring Cloud Zookeeper](https://cloud.spring.io/spring-cloud-zookeeper/reference/html/).
You can use <type://ZooKeeperRegistrationSpec#serverSets()> that applies the format of
[Finagle ServerSets](https://twitter.github.io/finagle/docs/com/twitter/serverset.html).
If you want to use your own format, you can implement the <type://ZooKeeperRegistrationSpec>.

In the example above, we used the ZooKeeper connection string(`"myZooKeeperHost:2181"`) to connect to
the ZooKeeper cluster. Instead, you can use an existing
[CuratorFramework](https://curator.apache.org/apidocs/org/apache/curator/framework/CuratorFramework.html)
instance.

```java
import org.apache.curator.framework.CuratorFramework;

CuratorFramework client = ...
String znodePath = ...
ZooKeeperRegistrationSpec registrationSpec = ...
ZooKeeperUpdatingListener listener =
        ZooKeeperUpdatingListener.builder(client, znodePath, registrationSpec)
                                 .build();
Server server = ...
server.addListener(listener);
server.start();
```

For more information, please refer to the API documentation of the
[com.linecorp.armeria.server.zookeeper](https://javadoc.io/doc/com.linecorp.armeria/armeria-javadoc/latest/com/linecorp/armeria/server/zookeeper/package-summary.html) package.

<Tip>

See [ZooKeeper service discovery](/docs/client-service-discovery#zookeeper-based-service-discovery-with-zookeeperendpointgroup).

</Tip>

## Eureka-based service registration with `EurekaUpdatingListener`

Use <type://EurekaUpdatingListener> to register your server to the Eureka:

```java
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.Server;
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.ServerBuilder;
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.eureka.EurekaUpdatingListener;

EurekaUpdatingListener listener =
        EurekaUpdatingListener.of("https://eureka.com:8001/eureka/v2");

ServerBuilder sb = Server.builder();
sb.addListener(listener);
sb.builder().start();
```

If you want to specify the [properties](https://github.com/Netflix/eureka/wiki/Eureka-REST-operations)
of the <type://Server>, use <type://EurekaUpdatingListenerBuilder>:

```java
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.eureka.EurekaUpdatingListenerBuilder;

EurekaUpdatingListenerBuilder builder =
        EurekaUpdatingListener.builder("https://eureka.com:8001/eureka/v2");
                              .instanceId("i-00000000")
                              .setHostname("armeria.service.1")
                              // If ipAddr is not specified, it's automatically filled
                              // using SystemInfo.defaultNonLoopbackIpV4Address().
                              .ipAddr("192.168.10.10")
                              .vipAddress("armeria.service.com:8080");
                              .build();
EurekaUpdatingListener listener = builder.build();
ServerBuilder sb = Server.builder();
sb.addListener(listener);
sb.builder().start();
```

For more information, please refer to the API documentation of the
[com.linecorp.armeria.client.eureka](https://javadoc.io/doc/com.linecorp.armeria/armeria-javadoc/latest/com/linecorp/armeria/client/eureka/package-summary.html) package.

<Tip>

See [Eureka service discovery](/docs/client-service-discovery#eureka-based-service-discovery-with-eurekaendpointgroup).

</Tip>

Commit message:

Add dependencies for zookeeper and eureka

site/src/pages/docs/server-service-registration.mdx, after:

# Service registration for discovery

You can use <type://ServerListener> to register the information of Armeria servers when they start so that
a client uses the information to distribute its requests to the servers autonomously, unlike
traditional server-side load balancing where the requests go through a dedicated load balancer such as
[L4 and L7 switches](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multilayer_switch#Layer_4%E2%80%937_switch,_web_switch,_or_content_switch).

Armeria provides 2 <type://ServerListener> implementations for service registration:
- <type://ZooKeeperUpdatingListener> which registers to [ZooKeeper](https://zookeeper.apache.org/)
  as an ephemeral node.
- <type://EurekaUpdatingListener> which registers to [Eureka](https://github.com/Netflix/eureka/).

## ZooKeeper-based service registration with `ZooKeeperUpdatingListener`

First, You need the `armeria-zookeeper3` dependency:

<RequiredDependencies
  boms={[{ groupId: 'com.linecorp.armeria', artifactId: 'armeria-bom' }]}
  dependencies={[
    { groupId: 'com.linecorp.armeria', artifactId: 'armeria-zookeeper3' },
  ]}
/>

Then, use <type://ZooKeeperUpdatingListener> and <type://ZooKeeperRegistrationSpec> to register your server
to a ZooKeeper cluster:

```java
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.Server;
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.zookeeper.ZooKeeperRegistrationSpec;
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.zookeeper.ZooKeeperUpdatingListener;

String zkConnectionStr = "myZooKeeperHost:2181";
String znodePath = "/myProductionEndpoints";
String serviceName = "catalog";
ZooKeeperRegistrationSpec registrationSpec =
        ZooKeeperRegistrationSpec.curator(serviceName);
ZooKeeperUpdatingListener listener =
        ZooKeeperUpdatingListener.builder(zkConnectionStr, znodePath, registrationSpec)
                                 .sessionTimeoutMillis(10000)
                                 .build();
Server server = ...
server.addListener(listener);
server.start();
```

The <type://ZooKeeperRegistrationSpec> is used to convert the information of your server to a binary
representation. The <type://ZooKeeperUpdatingListener> registers the binary representation to the specified
znode as a member of the cluster when your server starts up. Each server will represent itself as
[an EPHEMERAL node](https://zookeeper.apache.org/doc/r3.4.10/zookeeperOver.html#Nodes+and+ephemeral+nodes),
which means when a server stops or a network partition between your server and ZooKeeper cluster occurs,
the node of the server that became unreachable will be deleted automatically by ZooKeeper.

<type://ZooKeeperRegistrationSpec#curator(String)> uses the format of
[Curator Service Discovery](https://curator.apache.org/curator-x-discovery/index.html) which is compatible
with [Spring Cloud Zookeeper](https://cloud.spring.io/spring-cloud-zookeeper/reference/html/).
You can use <type://ZooKeeperRegistrationSpec#serverSets()> that applies the format of
[Finagle ServerSets](https://twitter.github.io/finagle/docs/com/twitter/serverset.html).
If you want to use your own format, you can implement the <type://ZooKeeperRegistrationSpec>.

In the example above, we used the ZooKeeper connection string(`"myZooKeeperHost:2181"`) to connect to
the ZooKeeper cluster. Instead, you can use an existing
[CuratorFramework](https://curator.apache.org/apidocs/org/apache/curator/framework/CuratorFramework.html)
instance.

```java
import org.apache.curator.framework.CuratorFramework;

CuratorFramework client = ...
String znodePath = ...
ZooKeeperRegistrationSpec registrationSpec = ...
ZooKeeperUpdatingListener listener =
        ZooKeeperUpdatingListener.builder(client, znodePath, registrationSpec)
                                 .build();
Server server = ...
server.addListener(listener);
server.start();
```

For more information, please refer to the API documentation of the
[com.linecorp.armeria.server.zookeeper](https://javadoc.io/doc/com.linecorp.armeria/armeria-javadoc/latest/com/linecorp/armeria/server/zookeeper/package-summary.html) package.

<Tip>

See [ZooKeeper service discovery](/docs/client-service-discovery#zookeeper-based-service-discovery-with-zookeeperendpointgroup).

</Tip>

## Eureka-based service registration with `EurekaUpdatingListener`

First, You need the `armeria-eureka` dependency:

<RequiredDependencies
  boms={[{ groupId: 'com.linecorp.armeria', artifactId: 'armeria-bom' }]}
  dependencies={[
    { groupId: 'com.linecorp.armeria', artifactId: 'armeria-eureka' },
  ]}
/>

Then, use <type://EurekaUpdatingListener> to register your server to the Eureka:

```java
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.Server;
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.ServerBuilder;
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.eureka.EurekaUpdatingListener;

EurekaUpdatingListener listener =
        EurekaUpdatingListener.of("https://eureka.com:8001/eureka/v2");

ServerBuilder sb = Server.builder();
sb.addListener(listener);
sb.builder().start();
```

If you want to specify the [properties](https://github.com/Netflix/eureka/wiki/Eureka-REST-operations)
of the <type://Server>, use <type://EurekaUpdatingListenerBuilder>:

```java
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.eureka.EurekaUpdatingListenerBuilder;

EurekaUpdatingListenerBuilder builder =
        EurekaUpdatingListener.builder("https://eureka.com:8001/eureka/v2");
                              .instanceId("i-00000000")
                              .setHostname("armeria.service.1")
                              // If ipAddr is not specified, it's automatically filled
                              // using SystemInfo.defaultNonLoopbackIpV4Address().
                              .ipAddr("192.168.10.10")
                              .vipAddress("armeria.service.com:8080");
                              .build();
EurekaUpdatingListener listener = builder.build();
ServerBuilder sb = Server.builder();
sb.addListener(listener);
sb.builder().start();
```

For more information, please refer to the API documentation of the
[com.linecorp.armeria.client.eureka](https://javadoc.io/doc/com.linecorp.armeria/armeria-javadoc/latest/com/linecorp/armeria/client/eureka/package-summary.html) package.

<Tip>

See [Eureka service discovery](/docs/client-service-discovery#eureka-based-service-discovery-with-eurekaendpointgroup).

</Tip>
