site/src/pages/community/developer-guide.mdx, before:

# Developer guide

## Build requirements

- [OpenJDK 13 (or later)](https://adoptopenjdk.net/)
  - Consider using [SDKMAN!](https://sdkman.io/) for convenient installation of JDK.

## How to build

We use [Gradle](https://gradle.org/) to build Armeria.
The following command will compile Armeria, run tests and generate JARs:

```bash
$ ./gradlew --parallel build
```

## Contributor license agreement

When you are sending a pull request and it's a non-trivial change beyond fixing typos, please sign 
[the ICLA (individual contributor license agreement)](https://cla-assistant.io/line/armeria). Please
[contact us](mailto:dl_oss_dev@linecorp.com) if you need the CCLA (corporate contributor license agreement).

## Setting up your IDE

You can import Armeria into your IDE ([IntelliJ IDEA](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/) or [Eclipse](https://www.eclipse.org/)) as a Gradle project.

- IntelliJ IDEA - See [Importing Project from Gradle Model](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/gradle.html#gradle_import_project_start)
- Eclipse - Use [Buildship Gradle Integration](https://marketplace.eclipse.org/content/buildship-gradle-integration)

<Tip>IntelliJ IDEA is our primary IDE for developing Armeria.</Tip>

Before importing the project, run the `generateSources` task to generate some source files:

```bash
$ ./gradlew --parallel -PnoLint generateSources
```

<Tip>

`-PnoLint` disables running lint tools such as Checkstyle and ESLint to save build time.

</Tip>

After importing the project, import the IDE settings as well:

<Tabs>
<TabPane tab="IntelliJ IDEA" key="idea">

- [`settings.jar`](https://github.com/line/armeria/raw/master/settings/intellij_idea/settings.jar) -
  See [Import settings from a ZIP archive](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/sharing-your-ide-settings.html#7a4f08b8).
- Make sure to use 'LINE OSS' code style and inspection profile.
  - Go to `Preferences` > `Editors` > `Code Style` and set `Scheme` option to `LINE OSS`.
  - Go to `Preferences` > `Editors` > `Inspections` and set `Profile` option to `LINE OSS`.

</TabPane>
<TabPane tab="Eclipse" key="eclipse">

- [`formatter.xml`](https://github.com/line/armeria/raw/master/settings/eclipse/formatter.xml) -
  See [Code Formatter Preferences](https://help.eclipse.org/neon/index.jsp?topic=%2Forg.eclipse.jdt.doc.user%2Freference%2Fpreferences%2Fjava%2Fcodestyle%2Fref-preferences-formatter.htm).
- [`formatter.importorder`](https://github.com/line/armeria/raw/master/settings/eclipse/formatter.importorder) -
  See [Organize Imports Preferences](https://help.eclipse.org/neon/index.jsp?topic=%2Forg.eclipse.jdt.doc.user%2Freference%2Fpreferences%2Fjava%2Fcodestyle%2Fref-preferences-organize-imports.htm).
- [`cleanup.xml`](https://github.com/line/armeria/raw/master/settings/eclipse/cleanup.xml) -
  See [Clean Up Preferences](https://help.eclipse.org/neon/index.jsp?topic=%2Forg.eclipse.jdt.doc.user%2Freference%2Fpreferences%2Fjava%2Fcodestyle%2Fref-preferences-cleanup.htm).
- Configure [Java Save Actions Preferences](https://help.eclipse.org/neon/index.jsp?topic=%2Forg.eclipse.jdt.doc.user%2Freference%2Fpreferences%2Fjava%2Feditor%2Fref-preferences-save-actions.htm).
  <details><summary>Click here to see the screenshot.</summary>
    <img src="https://github.com/line/armeria/raw/master/settings/eclipse/save_actions.png" />
  </details>

</TabPane>
</Tabs>

## Configure `-parameters` javac option

You can configure your build tool and IDE to add `-parameters` javac option.
Please refer to [Configure `-parameters` javac option](https://armeria.dev/docs/setup#configure--parameters-javac-option) for more information.

## Always make the build pass

Make sure your change does not break the build.

- Run `./gradlew --parallel build` locally.
- It is likely that you'll encounter some Checkstyle or Javadoc errors.
  Please fix them because otherwise the build will be broken.

## Add copyright header

All source files must begin with the following copyright header:

```
Copyright $today.year LINE Corporation

LINE Corporation licenses this file to you under the Apache License,
version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at:

  https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
```

## Add Javadoc

All public classes and public or protected methods must have Javadoc,
except the classes under `com.linecorp.armeria.internal`. Referring to
an internal API from a public API will trigger build failures.


## Check the warnings from the inspection profile

- Make sure you are using 'LINE OSS' code style and inspection profile.
- Evaluate all warnings emitted by the 'LINE OSS' inspection profile.
  - Try to fix them all and use the `@SuppressWarnings` annotation if it's a false positive.

## Avoid redundancy

Avoid using redundant keywords. To list a few:

- `final` method modifier in a `final` class
- `static` or `public` modifier in an `interface`
- `public` method modifier in a package-local or private class
- `private` constructor modifier in an `enum`
- field access prefixed with `this.` where unnecessary

## Use `public` only when necessary

The classes, methods and fields that are not meant to be used by a user should not be
public. Use the most restrictive modifier wherever possible, such as `private`,
package-local and `protected`, so that static analysis tools can find dead code easily.

## Organize

Organize class members carefully for readability, using **top-down** approach.
Although there's no absolute rule of thumb, it's usually like:

- `static` fields
- `static` methods
- member fields
- constructors
- member methods
- utility methods (both `static` and member)
- inner classes

## Check `null`

Do explicit `null`-check on the parameters of user-facing public methods.
Always use `Objects.requireNonNull(Object, String)` to do a `null`-check.

```java
import static java.util.Objects.requireNonNull;

public void setProperty(String name, String value) {
    // Great
    this.name = requireNonNull(name, "name");
    // Not great - we may not know which parameter is null exactly. 
    this.name = requireNonNull(name);
    // Not great - too verbose. NPE implies something's null already.
    this.name = requireNonNull(name, "name is null");
    // Not OK
    this.name = name
}
```

If you are using IntelliJ IDEA and you imported the `settings.jar` as explained
above, try the live template `rnn` and `rnna` which will save a lot of time.

### Use `@Nullable`

Use `@Nullable` annotation for nullable parameters and return types.
Do not use `@Nonnull` annotation since we assume everything is non-null otherwise.

### Avoid redundant null checks

Avoid unnecessary `null`-checks, including the hidden checks in `Objects.hashCode()` and `Objects.equals()`.

```java
public final class MyClass {
    private final String name;

    public MyClass(String name) {
        // We are sure 'name' is always non-null.
        this.name = requireNonNull(name, "name");
    }

    @Override
    public int hashCode() {
        // OK
        return name.hashCode();
        // Not OK
        return Objects.hash(name);
    }

    @Override
    public boolean equals(@Nullable Object obj) {
        ... usual type check ...
        // OK
        return name.equals(((MyClass) obj).name);
        // Not OK
        return Objects.equals(name, ((MyClass) obj).name);
    }
}
```

## Use meaningful exception messages

When raising an exception, specify meaningful message which gives an explicit clue
about what went wrong.

```java
switch (fileType) {
    case TXT: ... break;
    case XML: ... break;
    default:
        // Note that the exception message contains the offending value
        // as well as the expected values.
        throw new IllegalStateException(
                "unsupported file type: " + fileType +
                 " (expected: " + FileType.TXT + " or " + FileType.XML + ')');
}
```

## Validate

Do explicit validation on the parameters of user-facing public methods.
When raising an exception, always specify the detailed message in the following format:

```java
public void setValue(int value) {
    if (value < 0) {
        // Note that the exception message contains the offending value
        // as well as the expected value.
        throw new IllegalArgumentException("value: " + value + " (expected: >= 0)");
    }
}
```

### Use Guava's `Preconditions` if possible

Guava's `Preconditions` provides `checkArgument()` and `checkState()` which can simplify argument or state validation logic:

```java
private boolean someState;
void doSomething(int value) {
    checkArgument(value > 0, "value: %s (expected: > 0)", value);
    checkState(someState, "Cannot be called when ...");
    ...
}
```

However, you should use a good old `if` block if it takes an extra job to create an exception message:

```java
if (value <= 0) {
    throw new IllegalArgumentException(
        "value: " + toHumanReadable(value) + " (expected: ...)");
}
```

## Prefer JDK API

Prefer using plain JDK API when the same behavior can be achieved with the same
amount of code.

```java
// Prefer A (JDK) - less indirection
Map<String, String> map = new HashMap<>();   // A (JDK)
Map<String, String> map = Maps.newHashMap(); // B (Guava)

// Prefer B (Guava) - simpler yet more efficient
List<String> list = Collections.unmodifiableList(  // A (JDK)
        otherList.stream().filter(...).collect(Collectors.toList()));
List<String> list = otherList.stream().filter(...) // B (Guava)
        .collect(toImmutableList());
```

## Prefer early-return style

Prefer 'early return' code style for readability.

```java
// Great
public void doSomething(String value) {
    if (value == null) {
        return;
    }

    // Do the actual job
}

// Not great
public void doSomething(String value) {
    if (value != null) {
        // Do the actual job
    }
}
```

However, when the 'normal' execution path is very simple, this may also look beautiful:

```java
@Nullable
public String doSomething(String value) {
    if (value != null) {
        return value.trim();
    } else {
        return null;
    }
}
```

## Prefer `MoreObjects.toStringHelper()`

Prefer `MoreObjects.toStringHelper()` to hand-written `toString()` implementation.
However, consider writing hand-written or caching `toString()` implementation
in performance-sensitive places.  

## Think aesthetics

Do not insert an empty line that hurts code aesthetics.

```java
// OK
if (...) {
    doSomething();
}

// Not OK
if (...) {
    doSomething();
                        // <-- Remove this extra line.
}
```

Similarly, do not use two or more consecutive empty lines.

```java
// OK
public void a() { ... }

public void b() { ... }

// Not OK
public void a() { ... }

                        // <-- Remove this extra line.
public void b() { ... }
```

## Use JUnit 5 instead of JUnit 4 for testing

We support both [JUnit 4](https://junit.org/junit4/) and [JUnit 5](https://junit.org/junit5/) for testing, but we recommend to use JUnit 5.

```java
// Imports of JUnit5, Good
import org.junit.jupiter.api.AfterEach;
import org.junit.jupiter.api.BeforeEach;
import org.junit.jupiter.api.Test;
...

// Imports of JUnit4, Not Good
import org.junit.After;
import org.junit.Before;
import org.junit.Test;
...
```

## Use Assert4J instead of JUnit's assertion API

We prefer [Assert4J](https://joel-costigliola.github.io/assertj/) when writing assertions for test cases.

```java
// Good
assertThat(actualValue).isEqualTo(expectedValue);
assertThatThrownBy(() -> badMethod()).isInstanceOf(IllegalArgumentException.class)
                                     .hasMessageContaining("bad method");
// Not Good
assertEquals(expectedValue, actualValue);
try {
    badMethod();
} catch (IllegalArgumentException e) {
    assertTrue(e.getMessage().contains("bad method"));
}
```

Commit message:

Make Armeria buildable with JDK 15 (#3426)
- Fixed Javadoc errors which started to appear since JDK 15
- Now requires JDK 15 to perform a release
- Does not reject JDK 11 anymore, since JDK 11 is still a popular choice
  among Java devs.
  - Updated the build error message to reflect this change.
- Updated Gradle to 6.8.3
- Updated the JDK/JREs we use for CI
- Updated ProGuard to 7.1-beta1 (required for Java 15)
- Updated the build requirements in the developer guide.
  - We don't recommend SDKMan anymore since it does not list old JDK
    releases, giving people hard time installing JDK 15.
- Miscellaneous:
  - Fixed a flaky test: `com.linecorp.armeria.client.cookie.DefaultCookieJarTest.maxAge()`

site/src/pages/community/developer-guide.mdx, after:

# Developer guide

## Build requirements

- [OpenJDK 11-15](https://adoptopenjdk.net/archive.html?variant=openjdk15&jvmVariant=hotspot) (*not* 16)
  - Consider using a version manager for convenient installation of JDK, such as:
    - [asdf](https://asdf-vm.com/) - `asdf plugin add java && asdf install java adoptopenjdk-15.0.2+7`
    - [jabba](https://github.com/shyiko/jabba) - `jabba install adopt@1.15.0-1`

## How to build

We use [Gradle](https://gradle.org/) to build Armeria.
The following command will compile Armeria, run tests and generate JARs:

```bash
$ ./gradlew --parallel build
```

## Contributor license agreement

When you are sending a pull request and it's a non-trivial change beyond fixing typos, please sign 
[the ICLA (individual contributor license agreement)](https://cla-assistant.io/line/armeria). Please
[contact us](mailto:dl_oss_dev@linecorp.com) if you need the CCLA (corporate contributor license agreement).

## Setting up your IDE

You can import Armeria into your IDE ([IntelliJ IDEA](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/) or [Eclipse](https://www.eclipse.org/)) as a Gradle project.

- IntelliJ IDEA - See [Importing Project from Gradle Model](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/gradle.html#gradle_import_project_start)
- Eclipse - Use [Buildship Gradle Integration](https://marketplace.eclipse.org/content/buildship-gradle-integration)

<Tip>IntelliJ IDEA is our primary IDE for developing Armeria.</Tip>

Before importing the project, run the `generateSources` task to generate some source files:

```bash
$ ./gradlew --parallel -PnoLint generateSources
```

<Tip>

`-PnoLint` disables running lint tools such as Checkstyle and ESLint to save build time.

</Tip>

After importing the project, import the IDE settings as well:

<Tabs>
<TabPane tab="IntelliJ IDEA" key="idea">

- [`settings.jar`](https://github.com/line/armeria/raw/master/settings/intellij_idea/settings.jar) -
  See [Import settings from a ZIP archive](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/sharing-your-ide-settings.html#7a4f08b8).
- Make sure to use 'LINE OSS' code style and inspection profile.
  - Go to `Preferences` > `Editors` > `Code Style` and set `Scheme` option to `LINE OSS`.
  - Go to `Preferences` > `Editors` > `Inspections` and set `Profile` option to `LINE OSS`.

</TabPane>
<TabPane tab="Eclipse" key="eclipse">

- [`formatter.xml`](https://github.com/line/armeria/raw/master/settings/eclipse/formatter.xml) -
  See [Code Formatter Preferences](https://help.eclipse.org/neon/index.jsp?topic=%2Forg.eclipse.jdt.doc.user%2Freference%2Fpreferences%2Fjava%2Fcodestyle%2Fref-preferences-formatter.htm).
- [`formatter.importorder`](https://github.com/line/armeria/raw/master/settings/eclipse/formatter.importorder) -
  See [Organize Imports Preferences](https://help.eclipse.org/neon/index.jsp?topic=%2Forg.eclipse.jdt.doc.user%2Freference%2Fpreferences%2Fjava%2Fcodestyle%2Fref-preferences-organize-imports.htm).
- [`cleanup.xml`](https://github.com/line/armeria/raw/master/settings/eclipse/cleanup.xml) -
  See [Clean Up Preferences](https://help.eclipse.org/neon/index.jsp?topic=%2Forg.eclipse.jdt.doc.user%2Freference%2Fpreferences%2Fjava%2Fcodestyle%2Fref-preferences-cleanup.htm).
- Configure [Java Save Actions Preferences](https://help.eclipse.org/neon/index.jsp?topic=%2Forg.eclipse.jdt.doc.user%2Freference%2Fpreferences%2Fjava%2Feditor%2Fref-preferences-save-actions.htm).
  <details><summary>Click here to see the screenshot.</summary>
    <img src="https://github.com/line/armeria/raw/master/settings/eclipse/save_actions.png" />
  </details>

</TabPane>
</Tabs>

## Configure `-parameters` javac option

You can configure your build tool and IDE to add `-parameters` javac option.
Please refer to [Configure `-parameters` javac option](https://armeria.dev/docs/setup#configure--parameters-javac-option) for more information.

## Always make the build pass

Make sure your change does not break the build.

- Run `./gradlew --parallel build` locally.
- It is likely that you'll encounter some Checkstyle or Javadoc errors.
  Please fix them because otherwise the build will be broken.

## Add copyright header

All source files must begin with the following copyright header:

```
Copyright $today.year LINE Corporation

LINE Corporation licenses this file to you under the Apache License,
version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at:

  https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
```

## Add Javadoc

All public classes and public or protected methods must have Javadoc,
except the classes under `com.linecorp.armeria.internal`. Referring to
an internal API from a public API will trigger build failures.


## Check the warnings from the inspection profile

- Make sure you are using 'LINE OSS' code style and inspection profile.
- Evaluate all warnings emitted by the 'LINE OSS' inspection profile.
  - Try to fix them all and use the `@SuppressWarnings` annotation if it's a false positive.

## Avoid redundancy

Avoid using redundant keywords. To list a few:

- `final` method modifier in a `final` class
- `static` or `public` modifier in an `interface`
- `public` method modifier in a package-local or private class
- `private` constructor modifier in an `enum`
- field access prefixed with `this.` where unnecessary

## Use `public` only when necessary

The classes, methods and fields that are not meant to be used by a user should not be
public. Use the most restrictive modifier wherever possible, such as `private`,
package-local and `protected`, so that static analysis tools can find dead code easily.

## Organize

Organize class members carefully for readability, using **top-down** approach.
Although there's no absolute rule of thumb, it's usually like:

- `static` fields
- `static` methods
- member fields
- constructors
- member methods
- utility methods (both `static` and member)
- inner classes

## Check `null`

Do explicit `null`-check on the parameters of user-facing public methods.
Always use `Objects.requireNonNull(Object, String)` to do a `null`-check.

```java
import static java.util.Objects.requireNonNull;

public void setProperty(String name, String value) {
    // Great
    this.name = requireNonNull(name, "name");
    // Not great - we may not know which parameter is null exactly. 
    this.name = requireNonNull(name);
    // Not great - too verbose. NPE implies something's null already.
    this.name = requireNonNull(name, "name is null");
    // Not OK
    this.name = name
}
```

If you are using IntelliJ IDEA and you imported the `settings.jar` as explained
above, try the live template `rnn` and `rnna` which will save a lot of time.

### Use `@Nullable`

Use `@Nullable` annotation for nullable parameters and return types.
Do not use `@Nonnull` annotation since we assume everything is non-null otherwise.

### Avoid redundant null checks

Avoid unnecessary `null`-checks, including the hidden checks in `Objects.hashCode()` and `Objects.equals()`.

```java
public final class MyClass {
    private final String name;

    public MyClass(String name) {
        // We are sure 'name' is always non-null.
        this.name = requireNonNull(name, "name");
    }

    @Override
    public int hashCode() {
        // OK
        return name.hashCode();
        // Not OK
        return Objects.hash(name);
    }

    @Override
    public boolean equals(@Nullable Object obj) {
        ... usual type check ...
        // OK
        return name.equals(((MyClass) obj).name);
        // Not OK
        return Objects.equals(name, ((MyClass) obj).name);
    }
}
```

## Use meaningful exception messages

When raising an exception, specify meaningful message which gives an explicit clue
about what went wrong.

```java
switch (fileType) {
    case TXT: ... break;
    case XML: ... break;
    default:
        // Note that the exception message contains the offending value
        // as well as the expected values.
        throw new IllegalStateException(
                "unsupported file type: " + fileType +
                 " (expected: " + FileType.TXT + " or " + FileType.XML + ')');
}
```

## Validate

Do explicit validation on the parameters of user-facing public methods.
When raising an exception, always specify the detailed message in the following format:

```java
public void setValue(int value) {
    if (value < 0) {
        // Note that the exception message contains the offending value
        // as well as the expected value.
        throw new IllegalArgumentException("value: " + value + " (expected: >= 0)");
    }
}
```

### Use Guava's `Preconditions` if possible

Guava's `Preconditions` provides `checkArgument()` and `checkState()` which can simplify argument or state validation logic:

```java
private boolean someState;
void doSomething(int value) {
    checkArgument(value > 0, "value: %s (expected: > 0)", value);
    checkState(someState, "Cannot be called when ...");
    ...
}
```

However, you should use a good old `if` block if it takes an extra job to create an exception message:

```java
if (value <= 0) {
    throw new IllegalArgumentException(
        "value: " + toHumanReadable(value) + " (expected: ...)");
}
```

## Prefer JDK API

Prefer using plain JDK API when the same behavior can be achieved with the same
amount of code.

```java
// Prefer A (JDK) - less indirection
Map<String, String> map = new HashMap<>();   // A (JDK)
Map<String, String> map = Maps.newHashMap(); // B (Guava)

// Prefer B (Guava) - simpler yet more efficient
List<String> list = Collections.unmodifiableList(  // A (JDK)
        otherList.stream().filter(...).collect(Collectors.toList()));
List<String> list = otherList.stream().filter(...) // B (Guava)
        .collect(toImmutableList());
```

## Prefer early-return style

Prefer 'early return' code style for readability.

```java
// Great
public void doSomething(String value) {
    if (value == null) {
        return;
    }

    // Do the actual job
}

// Not great
public void doSomething(String value) {
    if (value != null) {
        // Do the actual job
    }
}
```

However, when the 'normal' execution path is very simple, this may also look beautiful:

```java
@Nullable
public String doSomething(String value) {
    if (value != null) {
        return value.trim();
    } else {
        return null;
    }
}
```

## Prefer `MoreObjects.toStringHelper()`

Prefer `MoreObjects.toStringHelper()` to hand-written `toString()` implementation.
However, consider writing hand-written or caching `toString()` implementation
in performance-sensitive places.  

## Think aesthetics

Do not insert an empty line that hurts code aesthetics.

```java
// OK
if (...) {
    doSomething();
}

// Not OK
if (...) {
    doSomething();
                        // <-- Remove this extra line.
}
```

Similarly, do not use two or more consecutive empty lines.

```java
// OK
public void a() { ... }

public void b() { ... }

// Not OK
public void a() { ... }

                        // <-- Remove this extra line.
public void b() { ... }
```

## Use JUnit 5 instead of JUnit 4 for testing

We support both [JUnit 4](https://junit.org/junit4/) and [JUnit 5](https://junit.org/junit5/) for testing, but we recommend to use JUnit 5.

```java
// Imports of JUnit5, Good
import org.junit.jupiter.api.AfterEach;
import org.junit.jupiter.api.BeforeEach;
import org.junit.jupiter.api.Test;
...

// Imports of JUnit4, Not Good
import org.junit.After;
import org.junit.Before;
import org.junit.Test;
...
```

## Use Assert4J instead of JUnit's assertion API

We prefer [Assert4J](https://joel-costigliola.github.io/assertj/) when writing assertions for test cases.

```java
// Good
assertThat(actualValue).isEqualTo(expectedValue);
assertThatThrownBy(() -> badMethod()).isInstanceOf(IllegalArgumentException.class)
                                     .hasMessageContaining("bad method");
// Not Good
assertEquals(expectedValue, actualValue);
try {
    badMethod();
} catch (IllegalArgumentException e) {
    assertTrue(e.getMessage().contains("bad method"));
}
```
