site/src/pages/tutorials/tutorial-blog-rest-step7.mdx, before:

---
menuTitle: "Add services to server"
order: 7
type: step
tags:
  - docservice
  - annotated-services
level: basic
---

# Adding blog service and DocService to server

In this step, we go back to the [Step 1. Create a server](/tutorials/tutorial-blog-rest-step1) and add the blog service to the server. Also, we'll add Armeria's [Documentation service](/docs/server-docservice) to test our blog service.

<TutorialSteps current={7} />

## What you need

You need to have these files obtained from previous steps.

- BadRequestExceptionHandler.java
- BlogPost.java
- BlogPostRequestConverter.java
- BlogService.java
- Main.java

## 1. Add blog service

In [Step 1. Create a server](/tutorials/tutorial-blog-rest-step1), you've added a dummy service just to check that a server is launched. Now, let's remove the dummy service and add our blog service.

1. From Main.java, remove the dummy service at line 4.
  ```java filename=Main.java highlight=4 showlineno=true
  static Server newServer(int port) {
    ...
    return sb.http(port)
             .service("/", (ctx, req) -> HttpResponse.of("Hello, Armeria!")) // remove this
             .build();
  ```
2. Add our service by adding line 4.
  ```java filename=Main.java highlight=4 showlineno=true
  static Server newServer(int port) {
    ...
    return sb.http(port)
             .annotatedService(new BlogService())   // add this
             .build();
  }
  ```

## 2. Add Documentation service

Let's add Armeria's Documentation service:

1. In the `newServer()` method, build a <type://DocService>, and add a request example for creating blog posts, using <type://DocService.exampleRequests>. Feel free to add more examples for other service methods.
  ```java filename=Main.java highlight=1,6-13
  import com.linecorp.armeria.server.docs.DocService;

  public final class Main {
    static Server newServer(int port) {
      ServerBuilder sb = Server.builder();
      DocService docService =
              DocService.builder()
                        .exampleRequests(BlogService.class,
                            "createBlogPost", // service method name
                            "{\"title\":\"My first blog\", \"content\":\"Hello Armeria!\"}")
                        .build();
  ```
2. Inside the `newServer()` method, add the <type://DocService> to our server builder.
  ```java filename=Main.java highlight=5
  static Server newServer(int port) {
    ...
    return sb.http(port)
             .annotatedService(new BlogService())
             .serviceUnder("/docs", docService)  // Add doc service
             .build();
  }
  ```
3. (Optional) To access the <type://DocService> result easily, edit the log message we added in [Step 1. Create a server](/tutorials/tutorial-blog-rest-step1) to the one specified below.
  ```java filename=Main.java highlight=2
  public static void main(String[] args) throws Exception {
      logger.info("Server has been started. Serving DocService at http://127.0.0.1:{}/docs",
                server.activeLocalPort());
  }
  ```

## 3. Run the server and service

Like we did in [Step 1. Create a server](/tutorial-blog-rest-step1#4-run-the-server-and-service), build and run the service by running the `main()` or using Gradle.

The server and services are launched successfully if you see this message.

```bash
 Server has been started. Serving DocService at http://127.0.0.1:8080/docs
```

## 4. Check DocService pages

Let's test and call our service operations, using Armeria's Documentation service.

1. Click the URL `http://127.0.0.1:8080/docs` from the log message or open the URL on a web browser. If you see the <type://DocService> page, you've launched the services and server successfully.
  ![](../../images/tutorial_blogservice_docservice.png)
2. Click the `createBlogPost()` method from the left panel. You can make calls to the creation method from this page.

  ![](../../images/tutorial_blogservice_reqex.png)

  Note that in the **REQUEST BODY** section that the values specified for the <type://DocServiceBuilder> are automatically entered on the page.
  ```java filename=Main.java highlight=5-8
  static Server newServer(int port) {
    ServerBuilder sb = Server.builder();
    DocService docService =
            DocService.builder()
                      .exampleRequests(
                        BlogService.class,
                        "createBlogPost",
                        "{\"title\":\"My first blog\",\"content\":\"Hello Armeria!\"}")
                      .build();
  ```
3. Click the **SUBMIT** button, and you'll see the blog post information returned in the right panel.

  ![](../../images/tutorial_blogservice_return.png)

Commit message:

Add import statements when they are required
Apply feedback review. Considering that readers may not follow the guides in the given order, include the section on creating the service file in each guide. Also, repeat import statements in code snippets for parallel sections, considering that they skip sections as desired.

site/src/pages/tutorials/tutorial-blog-rest-step7.mdx, after:

---
menuTitle: "Add services to server"
order: 7
type: step
tags:
  - docservice
  - annotated-services
level: basic
---

# Adding blog service and DocService to server

In this step, we go back to the [Step 1. Create a server](/tutorials/tutorial-blog-rest-step1) and add the blog service to the server. Also, we'll add Armeria's [Documentation service](/docs/server-docservice) to test our blog service.

<TutorialSteps current={7} />

Note that import statements in the code snippets may have been added already in other steps.

## What you need

You need to have these files obtained from previous steps.

- BadRequestExceptionHandler.java
- BlogPost.java
- BlogPostRequestConverter.java
- BlogService.java
- Main.java

## 1. Add blog service

In [Step 1. Create a server](/tutorials/tutorial-blog-rest-step1), you've added a dummy service just to check that a server is launched. Now, let's remove the dummy service and add our blog service.

1. From Main.java, remove the dummy service at line 4.
  ```java filename=Main.java highlight=4 showlineno=true
  static Server newServer(int port) {
    ...
    return sb.http(port)
             .service("/", (ctx, req) -> HttpResponse.of("Hello, Armeria!")) // remove this
             .build();
  ```
2. Add our service by adding line 4.
  ```java filename=Main.java highlight=4 showlineno=true
  static Server newServer(int port) {
    ...
    return sb.http(port)
             .annotatedService(new BlogService())   // add this
             .build();
  }
  ```

## 2. Add Documentation service

Let's add Armeria's Documentation service:

1. In the `newServer()` method, build a <type://DocService>, and add a request example for creating blog posts, using <type://DocService.exampleRequests>. Feel free to add more examples for other service methods.
  ```java filename=Main.java highlight=1,6-13
  import com.linecorp.armeria.server.docs.DocService;

  public final class Main {
    static Server newServer(int port) {
      ServerBuilder sb = Server.builder();
      DocService docService =
              DocService.builder()
                        .exampleRequests(BlogService.class,
                            "createBlogPost", // service method name
                            "{\"title\":\"My first blog\", \"content\":\"Hello Armeria!\"}")
                        .build();
  ```
2. Inside the `newServer()` method, add the <type://DocService> to our server builder.
  ```java filename=Main.java highlight=5
  static Server newServer(int port) {
    ...
    return sb.http(port)
             .annotatedService(new BlogService())
             .serviceUnder("/docs", docService)  // Add doc service
             .build();
  }
  ```
3. (Optional) To access the <type://DocService> result easily, edit the log message we added in [Step 1. Create a server](/tutorials/tutorial-blog-rest-step1) to the one specified below.
  ```java filename=Main.java highlight=2
  public static void main(String[] args) throws Exception {
      logger.info("Server has been started. Serving DocService at http://127.0.0.1:{}/docs",
                server.activeLocalPort());
  }
  ```

## 3. Run the server and service

Like we did in [Step 1. Create a server](/tutorial-blog-rest-step1#4-run-the-server-and-service), build and run the service by running the `main()` or using Gradle.

The server and services are launched successfully if you see this message.

```bash
 Server has been started. Serving DocService at http://127.0.0.1:8080/docs
```

## 4. Check DocService pages

Let's test and call our service operations, using Armeria's Documentation service.

1. Click the URL `http://127.0.0.1:8080/docs` from the log message or open the URL on a web browser. If you see the <type://DocService> page, you've launched the services and server successfully.
  ![](../../images/tutorial_blogservice_docservice.png)
2. Click the `createBlogPost()` method from the left panel. You can make calls to the creation method from this page.

  ![](../../images/tutorial_blogservice_reqex.png)

  Note that in the **REQUEST BODY** section that the values specified for the <type://DocServiceBuilder> are automatically entered on the page.
  ```java filename=Main.java highlight=5-8
  static Server newServer(int port) {
    ServerBuilder sb = Server.builder();
    DocService docService =
            DocService.builder()
                      .exampleRequests(
                        BlogService.class,
                        "createBlogPost",
                        "{\"title\":\"My first blog\",\"content\":\"Hello Armeria!\"}")
                      .build();
  ```
3. Click the **SUBMIT** button, and you'll see the blog post information returned in the right panel.

  ![](../../images/tutorial_blogservice_return.png)
