site/src/pages/tutorials/tutorial-blog-rest-intro.mdx, before:

---
type: tutorial
tags:
  - rest
  - request
  - request-converter
  - exceptions
  - exception-handling
  - blocking
level: basic
---

# REST tutorial introduction

Using Armeria's annotations, you can build RESTful services on the go.
Through this tutorial, you will learn to build a RESTful service with Armeria.
In particular, you will be using these Armeria features:

- [Service annotations](/docs/server-annotated-service)
- [Request converter](/docs/server-annotated-service#injecting-value-of-parameters-and-http-headers-into-a-java-object)
- [Exception handler](/docs/server-annotated-service#handling-exceptions)
- [Blocking](/docs/server-annotated-service/#specifying-a-blocking-task-executor)

This tutorial is based on a [sample service](https://github.com/line/armeria-examples/tree/master/tutorials/rest-api-annotated-service), a minimal blog service, with which you can create, read, update, and delete blog posts.
To keep our focus on Armeria, this tutorial and the sample service use memory-based operations instead of database operations.

[Try writing a service yourself](#try-writing-blog-service-yourself) by following this tutorial or have a go at [running the sample service](#run-sample-service) right away.

## Assumptions

This tutorial assumes that you have:

- Experiences in building services in Java
- Experiences in Java frameworks for server-side programming
- Understanding of RESTful APIs and how to implement them

## Prerequisites

To run and develop the sample service, set your computer with the requirements:

- JDK 8 or higher
- Gradle: Set your Gradle to compile Java with the [-parameters](/docs/setup/#configure--parameters-javac-option) option

## Sample service

The sample service provides you implementations of CRUD operations as specified below.

| Operation | Method | Annotation |
| -- | -- | -- |
| Create | `createBlogPost()` | <type://@Post> |
| Read | `getBlogPost()`, `getBlogPosts()` | <type://@Get> |
| Update | `updateBlogPost()` | <type://@Put> |
| Delete | `deleteBlogPost()` | <type://@Delete> |

### Sample service structure

The [sample service code](https://github.com/line/armeria-examples/tree/master/tutorials/rest-api-annotated-service) consists of the following folders and files.

```plantuml
@startsalt
{
{T
+ rest-api-annotated-service
++ src
+++ main
++++ java
+++++ example.armeria.server.blog
++++++ BadRequestExceptionHandler.java
++++++ BlogPost.java
++++++ BlogPostRequestConverter.java
++++++ BlogService.java
++++++ Main.java
+++ test
++++ java
+++++ example.armeria.server.blog
++++++ BlogServiceTest.java
+++ build.gradle
}
}
@endsalt
```

### build.gradle

The sample service uses third party libraries, Guava and Jackson. They are added as dependencies in the build.gradle file.

```groovy filename=build.gradle highlight=9,10
apply plugin: 'java'
apply plugin: 'idea'
apply plugin: 'eclipse'\n
repositories {
    mavenCentral()
}\n
dependencies {
  implementation "com.linecorp.armeria:armeria:${versions['com.linecorp.armeria:armeria-bom']}"\n
  implementation "com.google.guava:guava:${versions['com.google.guava:guava']}"\n
  implementation "com.fasterxml.jackson.core:jackson-core:${versions['com.fasterxml.jackson.core:jackson-core']}"\n
  // Logging
  runtimeOnly 'ch.qos.logback:logback-classic:${versions['ch.qos.logback:logback-classic']}'
  runtimeOnly 'org.slf4j:log4j-over-slf4j:${versions['org.slf4j:log4j-over-slf4j']}'
}
`}
```

## Run sample service

Have a go at running the sample service and experience the outcome of this tutorial.
Using Armeria's [Documentation Service](/docs/server-docservice), you can see a server running, receiving requests and providing responses.

1. Download the code from [here](https://github.com/line/armeria-examples/tree/master/tutorials/rest-api-annotated-service).
2. Build the sample service using the Gradle Wrapper.
  ```bash
  $ ./gradlew build
  ```
3. Run the sample service again, using the Gradle Wrapper.
  ```bash
  $ ./gradlew run
  ```
4. Open the <type://DocService> page on your web browser at http://127.0.0.1:8080/docs.

## Try writing blog service yourself

Try writing the blog service yourself by following the guides in the given order:

1. [Creating a server](/tutorials/tutorial-blog-rest-step1)
2. [Preparing a data object](/tutorials/tutorial-blog-rest-step2)
3. [Implementing CREATE operation](/tutorials/tutorial-blog-rest-step3)
4. [Implementing READ operation](/tutorials/tutorial-blog-rest-step4)
5. [Implementing UPDATE operation](/tutorials/tutorial-blog-rest-step5)
6. [Implementing DELETE operation](/tutorials/tutorial-blog-rest-step6)
7. [Adding services to server](/tutorials/tutorial-blog-rest-step7)

Commit message:

Correct the link text to parameter injection
The link text of the reference link to the parameter injection was request converter. Change the link text to parameter injection and add an item in the list referencing request converter.

site/src/pages/tutorials/tutorial-blog-rest-intro.mdx, after:

---
type: tutorial
tags:
  - rest
  - request
  - request-converter
  - exceptions
  - exception-handling
  - blocking
level: basic
---

# REST tutorial introduction

Using Armeria's annotations, you can build RESTful services on the go.
Through this tutorial, you'll learn to build a RESTful service with Armeria.
In particular, you'll be using these Armeria features:

- [Service annotations](/docs/server-annotated-service)
- [Request converter](/docs/server-annotated-service#converting-an-http-request-to-a-java-object)
- [Parameter injection](/docs/server-annotated-service#injecting-value-of-parameters-and-http-headers-into-a-java-object)
- [Exception handler](/docs/server-annotated-service#handling-exceptions)
- [Blocking task executor](/docs/server-annotated-service/#specifying-a-blocking-task-executor)

This tutorial is based on a [sample service](https://github.com/line/armeria-examples/tree/master/tutorials/rest-api-annotated-service), a minimal blog service, with which you can create, read, update, and delete blog posts.
To keep our focus on Armeria, this tutorial and the sample service use memory-based operations instead of database operations.

[Try writing a service yourself](#try-writing-blog-service-yourself) by following this tutorial or have a go at [running the sample service](#run-sample-service) right away.

## Assumptions

This tutorial assumes that you have:

- Experiences in building services in Java
- Experiences in Java frameworks for server-side programming
- Understanding of RESTful APIs and how to implement them

## Prerequisites

To run and develop the sample service, set your computer with the requirements:

- JDK 8 or higher
- Gradle: Set your Gradle to compile Java with the [-parameters](/docs/setup/#configure--parameters-javac-option) option

## Sample service

The sample service provides you implementations of CRUD operations as specified below.

| Operation | Method | Annotation |
| -- | -- | -- |
| Create | `createBlogPost()` | <type://@Post> |
| Read | `getBlogPost()`, `getBlogPosts()` | <type://@Get> |
| Update | `updateBlogPost()` | <type://@Put> |
| Delete | `deleteBlogPost()` | <type://@Delete> |

### Sample service structure

The [sample service code](https://github.com/line/armeria-examples/tree/master/tutorials/rest-api-annotated-service) consists of the following folders and files.

```plantuml
@startsalt
{
{T
+ rest-api-annotated-service
++ src
+++ main
++++ java
+++++ example.armeria.server.blog
++++++ BadRequestExceptionHandler.java
++++++ BlogPost.java
++++++ BlogPostRequestConverter.java
++++++ BlogService.java
++++++ Main.java
+++ test
++++ java
+++++ example.armeria.server.blog
++++++ BlogServiceTest.java
+++ build.gradle
}
}
@endsalt
```

### build.gradle

The sample service uses third party libraries, Guava and Jackson. They are added as dependencies in the build.gradle file.

```groovy filename=build.gradle highlight=9,10
apply plugin: 'java'
apply plugin: 'idea'
apply plugin: 'eclipse'\n
repositories {
    mavenCentral()
}\n
dependencies {
  implementation "com.linecorp.armeria:armeria:${versions['com.linecorp.armeria:armeria-bom']}"\n
  implementation "com.google.guava:guava:${versions['com.google.guava:guava']}"\n
  implementation "com.fasterxml.jackson.core:jackson-core:${versions['com.fasterxml.jackson.core:jackson-core']}"\n
  // Logging
  runtimeOnly 'ch.qos.logback:logback-classic:${versions['ch.qos.logback:logback-classic']}'
  runtimeOnly 'org.slf4j:log4j-over-slf4j:${versions['org.slf4j:log4j-over-slf4j']}'
}
`}
```

## Run sample service

Have a go at running the sample service and experience the outcome of this tutorial.
Using Armeria's [Documentation Service](/docs/server-docservice), you can see a server running, receiving requests and providing responses.

1. Download the code from [here](https://github.com/line/armeria-examples/tree/master/tutorials/rest-api-annotated-service).
2. Build the sample service using the Gradle Wrapper.
  ```bash
  $ ./gradlew build
  ```
3. Run the sample service again, using the Gradle Wrapper.
  ```bash
  $ ./gradlew run
  ```
4. Open the <type://DocService> page on your web browser at http://127.0.0.1:8080/docs.

## Try writing blog service yourself

Try writing the blog service yourself by following the guides in the given order:

1. [Creating a server](/tutorials/tutorial-blog-rest-step1)
2. [Preparing a data object](/tutorials/tutorial-blog-rest-step2)
3. [Implementing CREATE operation](/tutorials/tutorial-blog-rest-step3)
4. [Implementing READ operation](/tutorials/tutorial-blog-rest-step4)
5. [Implementing UPDATE operation](/tutorials/tutorial-blog-rest-step5)
6. [Implementing DELETE operation](/tutorials/tutorial-blog-rest-step6)
7. [Adding services to server](/tutorials/tutorial-blog-rest-step7)
